The International Maritime Organization is inviting Member States to express interest in receiving technical assistance for feasibility studies to support pilot projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from ships.

The call contributes to the implementation of the 2023 IMO GHG Strategy which commits to reaching net-zero GHG emissions from international shipping by or around 2050, and to promoting the uptake of zero- or near-zero emission technologies, fuels and energy sources by 2030.

This year's open call for proposals under the IMO GreenVoyage2050 Accelerator will focus on passenger ships, including ferries and Ro-Pax ships. As public assets operating on fixed routes and predictable schedules, these ships are particularly well-suited to the application of zero- and near-zero emission solutions and offer strong potential for wider replication across fleets. Their public ownership can also make investment decisions more straightforward, while successful pilot projects can deliver direct and visible benefits to the communities they serve.

Support will be provided through IMO's GreenVoyage2050 programme and will include the technical and economic assessments of zero- or near-zero emission technologies, fuels, and energy solutions. The aim is to support countries develop investment-ready pilot projects by strengthening the evidence base and reducing implementation uncertainty.

"Pilot projects play an important role in advancing our uptake of zero- and near-zero emission technologies and fuels in shipping," said an official from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure of Turkiye, which benefited from GreenVoyage2050 Accelerator support under the previous round of open calls for a feasibility study on ferry electrification in the Sea of Marmara. "Undertaking a feasibility study has enabled us to better assess technical and economic options, reduce uncertainty, and develop a project that is ready for implementation and investment."

Eligibility and how to apply
Member States eligible for Official Development Assistance are invited to submit expressions of interest. Support under this phase will be delivered between July 2026 and December 2027.

Full eligibility criteria and application details are set out in Circular Letter No.5160. The deadline for submission of an expression of interest is 29 May 2026.

For more information, please visit the GreenVoyage2050 website or contact greenvoyage2050@imo.org.

GreenVoyage2050 Programme
GreenVoyage2050 is the International Maritime Organization's flagship technical cooperation programme supporting developing countries in turning the ambitions of the 2023 IMO GHG Strategy into practical action. Now in its second phase (2024–2030), the programme supports countries through technical assistance, policy development, capacity-building and pilot initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions from shipping and advancing maritime decarbonization. GreenVoyage2050 is funded by the Governments of Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Norway.